---
title: "Week 2: HTML Basics 1"
date: 2018-09-03 12:00:00
description: "Explore RWD Day 1, HTML Basic Elements, CodePen Setup, Whiteboard exercise, Work on HTML Basics 1 Challenge"
assignment: <a href="../assignments/html">HTML Basics 1</a>
reading: <ul><li><i>HTML&CSS</i> - Introduction, Ch. 1 Structure, Ch.2 Text</li></ul>
due: Take Introductory Survey and <a href="../assignments/casestudy">Explore RWD Group 1</a>
part: "1"
layout: wide
semester: fall-2018
current: yes
slides: "/class/slides/2/2-Slides-RWD.pdf"
status: blog-post-date--past

---

## Outline

* HTML Case Study Assignment (1 Hour)
* Thoughts on Responsive Web Design and Process
* HTML Structure Basics (.25 Hour)
* Live HTML Coding (.5 Hour)
* Setup GitHub (.5 Hour)
* HTML Basics Assignment (.5)
* Wrap Up Discussion: What We Learned, Easiest and Most Difficult Parts (.25 hour)


## GitHub Instructions

Go to https://github.com/join to sign up.
Choose the free plan.
Tell Chris your user - Chris adds to organization
Accept invitation to the RWD organization (so we can share)
Create a new repository for the class - ONLY ONE PER GROUP
Repository creator invites their team member to the repository.
* Settings > Collaborators > add by user name

Download GitHub Desktop: https://desktop.github.com/

Login to your account

New Repository > Clone > find your repository > Choose a folder on the computer to clone to.  Remember that the files are ultimately stored on GitHub.com, so it doesn't necessarily matter which computer you use to edit repositories.

Open SublimeText > Drag your repository folder into it.

Go to Projects > Save Project As and save a file for your project.

Creat a new index.html file in SublimeText.  Add some content.  Save that file within your repository.

You can view this file in your browser.  Simple drag the file into your browser.

Go back to GitHub Desktop. Youll see there's a new change waiting to be "committed".

Click Sync to actually push the changes to the server.

Go to www.github.com.  You'll see your change now online!

Other people can't easily access your site right now though.  GitHub allows you to host your site for free using a feature called GitHub Pages.

In GitHub Desktop, click on the icon next to master.  It is the "branch" icon.

Create a new branch called "gh-pages".  It must be exactly spelled this way.

Click View Branch

Click Publish

Your content is now online using GitHub pages.  Visit http://user-name.github.io/project-name

Make another change using SublimeText to edit your HTML files.  Try pushing (syncing) that change back to GitHub and then visit your site to see it update.

Note - you should only commit after you're satisfied with your changes.  There's no need to push to GitHub for every change.  That's why we view files locally.

If you wanted, you could actually purchase a domain name (.com, etc.) and use it in place of your GitHub address.
