---
title: "Class 3: Research and HTML Part 2"
date: 2016-02-02 12:00:00
description: "I'll introduce the semester project and we'll talk about developing research and goals for website projects.  We'll also continue our HTML discussion with a hands-on lesson in class."
assignment: <a href="../assignments/project-summary.html">Semester Project (Introduced)</a> and <a href="../assignments/research">Research/Competitive Analysis</a>
reading: <ul><li><i>HTML&CSS</i> - Ch. 3 Lists, Ch.4 Links</li><li><a href="http://alistapart.com/article/what-really-matters-focusing-on-top-tasks">Focusing On Top Tasks</a></li><li><a href="https://24ways.org/2013/bringing-design-and-research-closer-together/">Bringing Design and Research Closer Together by Emma Boulton</a></li></ul>
due: <a href="../assignments/html">HTML Basics 1</a>
part: "1"
layout: wide
slides: "/class/slides/3/3-Slides-RWD.pdf"
semester: spring-2016
---


## Outline

* HTML Basics 1 Discussion (20 min - end 5:50)
* Remaining Case Studies (15 min - end 6:10)
* HTML: Lists/Links/RWD (20 min - end 6:30)
* Research Discussion (15 min - end 6:45)
* BREAK (5 min)
* Semester Project Introduction & Groups (15 min - end 7:00)
* Research Assignment Discussion (15 min - end 7:15)
* Set up GitHub Repository (40 min - end 8:00)


## How to Set Up GitHub

Create a new repository for the class - ONLY ONE PER GROUP
Repository creator invites their team member to the repository.
* Settings > Collaborators > add by user name

Download GitHub Desktop: https://desktop.github.com/

Login to your account

New Repository > Clone > find your repository > Choose a folder on the computer to clone to.  Remember that the files are ultimately stored on GitHub.com, so it doesn't necessarily matter which computer you use to edit repositories.

Open SublimeText > Drag your repository folder into it.

Go to Projects > Save Project As and save a file for your project.

Creat a new index.html file in SublimeText.  Add some content.  Save that file within your repository.

You can view this file in your browser.  Simple drag the file into your browser.

Go back to GitHub Desktop. Youll see there's a new change waiting to be "committed".

Click Sync to actually push the changes to the server.

Go to www.github.com.  You'll see your change now online!

Other people can't easily access your site right now though.  GitHub allows you to host your site for free using a feature called GitHub Pages.

In GitHub Desktop, click on the icon next to master.  It is the "branch" icon.

Create a new branch called "gh-pages".  It must be exactly spelled this way.

Click View Branch

Click Publish

Your content is now online using GitHub pages.  Visit http://user-name.github.io/project-name

Make another change using SublimeText to edit your HTML files.  Try pushing (syncing) that change back to GitHub and then visit your site to see it update.

Note - you should only commit after you're satisfied with your changes.  There's no need to push to GitHub for every change.  That's why we view files locally.

If you wanted, you could actually purchase a domain name (.com, etc.) and use it in place of your GitHub address.
